README.md, before:

# Go Http Web Server
A simple http web server written in `Golang` exposing application metrics as a microservice. This project is built on the basic DevOps principles like building images securely through CI mechanism which includes signing of images, scanning for vulnerabilities and also does a continuous deployment test on every push and pull request. The application can be deployed easily on your kubernetes cluster using helm chart. 

## Pre-requisites for installation

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/)
- [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
- [OpenTofu CLI](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh)
- [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation)

## Setup Quick KIND environment using OpenTofu
1. Clone this repo in your local laptop 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cherrymu/process-out-challenge.git
```
2. switch directory into environments/local-dev
```bash
cd environments/local-dev/
```
3. Initialize OpenTofu
```bash
tofu init
```
4. Apply OpenTofu Configuration to Create Kind Cluster
```bash
tofu apply -auto-approve
```
5. Set your `KUBECONFIG` path and check the status of the nodes 
```bash
export KUBECONFIG=./environments/local-dev/kubeconfig_example

kubectl get nodes -o wide
```
6. Create a namespace for our application deployment and an `imagepull secret` to securely pull a private image from the container registry
```bash
kubectl create ns go-web-app

kubectl create secret docker-registry my-registry-secret --docker-server=docker.io --docker-username=tincher --docker-password=dckr_pat_rNnP750_a_Jt6MKeTyaK0uomSQk -n go-web-app
```

## Deploying the application using Helm 

1. Add the helm repo and perform a repo update 

```bash
helm repo add go-http-server https://cherrymu.github.io/process-out-challenge/charts

helm repo update 
```
2. Deploy the application 
``` bash
helm install web-server go-http-server/go-simple-web-server -n go-web-app
```
3. Please follow the instructions on your screen to do a `port-forward` of the app service to test it the locally for the path `/` for webpage displaying Hello,World! and the path `/metrics`to view the metrics exposed by the application.

## Bonus Points
You can fetch the values.yaml of the chart locally to make changes and upgrade your helm release
```bash
helm show values go-http-server/go-simple-web-server > custom-values.yaml

helm upgrade web-server go-http-server/go-simple-web-server -f custom-values.yaml
```
## Clean Up
1. Delete the helm release 
```bash
helm delete web-server
```
2. Destroy the KIND cluster after testing 
```bash
cd environments/local-dev/

tofu destroy
```

## Things Covered 
- [x] Create a golang application listening on port 8080 with open telemetry metrics
- [x] Application built in a secure CI pipeline using github actions
- [x] Packaged into a Docker container and push it to a container registry
- [x] Deployed on to a local kind cluster
- [x] Used private cloud container registry
- [x] Used helm to deploy the packaged application easily
- [x] Usage of infrastructure-as-code tool (OpenTofu) to provision local KIND cluster
- [x] Security scanners implementation using Trivy during the build process 



## Project Highlights/Features
1. Modular Golang code with Separate HTTP handlers and telemetry into different files for better organization and error handling.
2. Built the CI workflow using [github actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) for building the image on every push andpull requests before merging. 
3. Used [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy) as a security vulnerability scanner to scan the built images before pushing it to the private container registry
4. Used [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation) to sign off the images securely to the private container registy.
5. Used [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/) to automate the provision of the creating a quick local KIND cluster even when we don't have native KIND package support in OpenTofu yet. So used a bash script under the hoods and taking advantage of OpenTofu's `null_resource` to manage the execution of your Kind cluster script
6. Created and hosted [Helm Chart](https://helm.sh) using GitHub pages for easy access.


## Areas for Future Improvement
- Use an ingress gateway like Istio to route the traffic inside the cluster securely with more granularity and access control for the backend services with claims and policies.
- Use ArgoCD/Flux to deploy and manage applications more efficiently
- Extend OpenTofu configuration to automate installation of pre-requisites tools.
- Use [sigstore policy controller](https://github.com/sigstore/policy-controller) to enforce a strict image policy such that only signed and verified images will be allowed to deploy in a namespace and other images will be rejected by the admission webhook controller.

Commit message:

added makefile and updated readme file

README.md, after:

# Go Http Web Server
A simple http web server written in `Golang` exposing application metrics as a microservice. This project is built on the basic DevOps principles like building images securely through CI mechanism which includes signing of images, scanning for vulnerabilities and also does a continuous deployment test on every push and pull request. The application can be deployed easily on your kubernetes cluster using helm chart. 

## Pre-requisites for installation on Linux Machines

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/)
- [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
- [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/)
- [Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh)
- [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation)

## Setup tools and environment using OpenTofu
1. Clone this repo in your local laptop 
```bash
git clone https://github.com/cherrymu/process-out-challenge.git
```
2. Install all the necessary cli tools using makescript. Before running the makefile please make sure you have `make` and `unzip` utility installed on your machine
```bash
make all 
```
3. Switch directory into environments/local-dev
```bash
cd environments/local-dev/
```
4. Initialize OpenTofu
```bash
tofu init
```
5. Apply OpenTofu Configuration to Create Kind Cluster
```bash
tofu apply -auto-approve
```
6. Set your `KUBECONFIG` path and check the status of the nodes 
```bash
export KUBECONFIG=./environments/local-dev/kubeconfig_example

kubectl get nodes -o wide
```
7. Create a namespace for our application deployment and an `imagepull secret` to securely pull a private image from the container registry
```bash
kubectl create ns go-web-app

kubectl create secret docker-registry my-registry-secret --docker-server=docker.io --docker-username=tincher --docker-password=dckr_pat_rNnP750_a_Jt6MKeTyaK0uomSQk -n go-web-app
```

## Deploying the application using Helm 

1. Add the helm repo and perform a repo update 

```bash
helm repo add go-http-server https://cherrymu.github.io/process-out-challenge/charts

helm repo update 
```
2. Deploy the application 
``` bash
helm install web-server go-http-server/go-simple-web-server -n go-web-app
```
3. Please follow the instructions on your screen to do a `port-forward` of the app service to test it the locally for the path `/` for webpage displaying Hello,World! and the path `/metrics`to view the metrics exposed by the application.

## Bonus Points
You can fetch the values.yaml of the chart locally to make changes and upgrade your helm release
```bash
helm show values go-http-server/go-simple-web-server > custom-values.yaml

helm upgrade web-server go-http-server/go-simple-web-server -f custom-values.yaml
```
## Clean Up
1. Delete the helm release 
```bash
helm delete web-server
```
2. Destroy the KIND cluster after testing 
```bash
cd environments/local-dev/

tofu destroy
```

## Things Covered 
- [x] Create a golang application listening on port 8080 with open telemetry metrics
- [x] Application built in a secure CI pipeline using github actions
- [x] Packaged into a Docker container and push it to a container registry
- [x] Deployed on to a local kind cluster
- [x] Used private cloud container registry
- [x] Used helm to deploy the packaged application easily
- [x] Usage of infrastructure-as-code tool (OpenTofu) to provision local KIND cluster
- [x] Security scanners implementation using Trivy during the build process 



## Project Highlights/Features
1. Modular Golang code with Separate HTTP handlers and telemetry into different files for better organization and error handling.
2. Built the CI workflow using [github actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) for building the image on every push andpull requests before merging. 
3. Used [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy) as a security vulnerability scanner to scan the built images before pushing it to the private container registry
4. Used [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation) to sign off the images securely to the private container registy.
5. Used [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/) to automate the provision of the creating a quick local KIND cluster even when we don't have native KIND package support in OpenTofu yet. So used a bash script under the hoods and taking advantage of OpenTofu's `null_resource` to manage the execution of your Kind cluster script
6. Created and hosted [Helm Chart](https://helm.sh) using GitHub pages for easy access.


## Areas for Future Improvement
- Use an ingress gateway like Istio to route the traffic inside the cluster securely with more granularity and access control for the backend services with claims and policies.
- Use ArgoCD/Flux to deploy and manage applications more efficiently
- Extend OpenTofu configuration to automate installation of pre-requisites tools.
- Use [sigstore policy controller](https://github.com/sigstore/policy-controller) to enforce a strict image policy such that only signed and verified images will be allowed to deploy in a namespace and other images will be rejected by the admission webhook controller.
